One pager writeups (#11045)
dotnet/msbuild: documentation/specs/proposed/evaluation-perf.md

# Evaluation performance investigations

> In the current effort to improve performance of MSBuild, we ideantified the evaluation as one of the focus areas of this effort. Evalution is the ifrst step when building, and it determines references, how projects are connected and what needs to be build. Because of this it runs in every single build, be it Design-time builds in Visual Studio, up-to-date builds or full builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current effort to improve performance of MSBuild, we identified evaluation as one of the focus areas of this effort. Evaluation is the first step when loading or building, and it determines references, how projects are connected and what needs to be build. Because of this it runs in every MSBuild scenario, from solution load and design-time builds in Visual Studio, to up-to-date builds or full builds in VS or on the command line.
```

## Description

> Current performance state of evaluation is mostly unkown, as it is not measured in any ways by the team. As such, we are unsure which specific areas can be improve. The investigation about this is necessary so we can identify weaknesses, and possible fixes.

Reviewer 2: The performance evaluation of tools moving to .NET Core is mostly understood correct? Is this about tasks?

Reviewer 3: This doc isn't about Task performance on Core/non-Core - it's focused on Evaluation. So the reading of the data in the project file and any imports therein.

> Current performance state of evaluation is mostly unkown, as it is not measured in any ways by the team. As such, we are unsure which specific areas can be improve. The investigation about this is necessary so we can identify weaknesses, and possible fixes.

Reviewer: This feels a little harsh. I'd say it's not tracked or dashboarded, but it is measured in several ways.

The work here is to have a live report we can use to a) justify investment in eval perf and b) guide what that investment entails.

 - We could do profiling

>  - Jit compilation o MSBuild itself. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Jit compilation of MSBuild itself. 
```

 - We could cache at eval

>  Constraint - needs to work as it does today, but fast. We can break some edge cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constraint - needs to work as it does today, but faster. We may be able to break some edge cases.
```

(we can't, we can't break edge cases . . . but maybe!)

## Goals and Motivation

> We are trying to make evaluation phase of the build more performant, since it is almost always executed any performance gain becomes noticeable. A performant evaluation phase would decrease build times in general, in CI cases it frees up resources, and in individual cases it can increase dev-loop performance by making up-to-date and incremental builds go faster.

Reviewer: How is this different from "description"? Maybe keep this here and change description to be "we want to track the data better"?

> In this moment we are still in investigation phase, the obejective is to add code markers, so we can idetentify low hanging fixes, and improvement areas when testing builds within PerfStar.

Reviewer: The markers are already there for the most part, is there something specific we're planning to add?
